Data Manipulation:
Changing, organizing, or preparing data to make it useful and easier to 
understand
Goal: To clean, transform, and structure raw data for better usability
Example: 
    Organizing a Grocery list
    Fixing errors in a student record

Data Analysis:
Extracting patterns, trends, and insights from the data to solve problems.
Goal: To answer questions or identify trends using the data
Example:
    Analyzing Sales Trends
    Tracking Fitness Progress

Key Diffrences

Aspect  | Data Manipulation           | Data Analysis
        |                             |
Focus   | Preparing and cleaning data | Extracting insights from prepared data
        |                             |
Goal    | Organize and structure raw  | Find patterns, trends, and solve 
        | data                        | problems
        |                             |
Example | Fixing erros in a student's | Analyzing which student scored the 
        | grade sheet                 | highest

Who Created Pandas and Why ?

Wes Mckinet, a data scientist and software developer, created pandas in 2008

Reason for Creation:

1. While working at AQR Capital Management, Wes faced challenges Analyzing
   large financial datasets.

2. Existing tools like Excel were inefficient for large-scale data cleaning
   and analysis.

What is Pandas ?

1. Pandas is a powerful and popular python library designed for data 
   manipulation and data analysis

2. It simplifies working with structured datasets like tables, spreadsheets,
   or time-series data

What Makes Pandas Unique ?

key featurs:
        a. Works seamlessly with structured data formats like CSV and Excel.
        b. Handling missing values easily.
        c. Built on NumPy for fast computations.

Why use Pandas ?
        a. Performance: Handles millions of rows efficiently.
        b. Ease of Use: Beginner friendly syntax for cleaning and transforming
                        data.
        c. Integration: Works with libraries like Matplotlib (visualization)
                        and Scikit-learn (ml)

Real-Life Examples of Pandas in Action

Finance: 
        Analyzing time-series data like stock prices to identify market
        trends.

Retail:
        Tracking inventory and finding the most sold products in a store.

Healthcare:
        Analyzing patient records and outcomes from clinical trials.

How to get started with pandas

Install Pandas
pip install pandas

Using conda (Anaconda):
conda install pandas

Using uv:
uv pip install pandas

Import Pandas:

Use the following shorthand in your python script:
import pandas as pd

Key Pandas Concepts

Series:
        1. A series is one-dimensional labeled array that can hold any data
           type: integers, floats, strings, or even Python objects. Each
           element in the series has a unique label called an index.

        2. It is often used to track changes or patterns over time, such
           as daily temperatures, stock prices, or sales revenue.

DataFrame:
        1. A DataFrame is a 2D labeled data structure in pandas, similar
           to a table in a database, an Excel spreadsheet, or a SQL table.
        2. It consists of rows and columns, where:
                a. Rows have indices (labels).
                b. Columns have names (labels).


Before analyzing or manipulating data you need to give 2 answers;
        1. How big is your data
        2. What are the names of columns